README.md, before:

# HWPweb Admin Template for CodeIgniter 4 with AJAX Datatables CRUD

## What is CodeIgniter?

CodeIgniter is a PHP full-stack web framework that is light, fast, flexible and secure.
More information can be found at the [official site](https://codeigniter.com).

This repository holds a composer-installable app starter.
It has been built from the
[development repository](https://github.com/codeigniter4/CodeIgniter4).

More information about the plans for version 4 can be found in [CodeIgniter 4](https://forum.codeigniter.com/forumdisplay.php?fid=28) on the forums.

The user guide corresponding to the latest version of the framework can be found
[here](https://codeigniter4.github.io/userguide/).

## Installation

1. Clone this repostiory.
2. Navigate into cloned repository folder.
3. Open terminal app and run `composer install`.

## Setup

1. Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and tailor for your app, specifically the baseURL
   and any database settings.
2. Create MySQL database match with database name specified in `.env` file.
3. Run `php spark migrate` to migrate database.
4. Run `php spark db:seed UsersSeeder` to seed the database items.
5. Run `php spark serve` to start the server. Usually [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080).

## Important Change with index.php

`index.php` is no longer in the root of the project! It has been moved inside the _public_ folder,
for better security and separation of components.

This means that you should configure your web server to "point" to your project's _public_ folder, and
not to the project root. A better practice would be to configure a virtual host to point there. A poor practice would be to point your web server to the project root and expect to enter _public/..._, as the rest of your logic and the
framework are exposed.

**Please** read the user guide for a better explanation of how CI4 works!

## Repository Management

We use GitHub issues, in our main repository, to track **BUGS** and to track approved **DEVELOPMENT** work packages.
We use our [forum](http://forum.codeigniter.com) to provide SUPPORT and to discuss
FEATURE REQUESTS.

This repository is a "distribution" one, built by our release preparation script.
Problems with it can be raised on our forum, or as issues in the main repository.

## Server Requirements

PHP version 7.4 or higher is required, with the following extensions installed:

- [intl](http://php.net/manual/en/intl.requirements.php)
- [mbstring](http://php.net/manual/en/mbstring.installation.php)

> **Warning**
> The end of life date for PHP 7.4 was November 28, 2022. If you are
> still using PHP 7.4, you should upgrade immediately. The end of life date
> for PHP 8.0 will be November 26, 2023.

Additionally, make sure that the following extensions are enabled in your PHP:

- json (enabled by default - don't turn it off)
- [mysqlnd](http://php.net/manual/en/mysqlnd.install.php) if you plan to use MySQL
- [libcurl](http://php.net/manual/en/curl.requirements.php) if you plan to use the HTTP\CURLRequest library

Commit message:

Example CRUD with file upload using AJAX

README.md, after:

# HWPweb Admin Template for CodeIgniter 4 with AJAX Datatables CRUD

## What is CodeIgniter?

CodeIgniter is a PHP full-stack web framework that is light, fast, flexible and secure.
More information can be found at the [official site](https://codeigniter.com).

This repository holds a composer-installable app starter.
It has been built from the
[development repository](https://github.com/codeigniter4/CodeIgniter4).

More information about the plans for version 4 can be found in [CodeIgniter 4](https://forum.codeigniter.com/forumdisplay.php?fid=28) on the forums.

The user guide corresponding to the latest version of the framework can be found
[here](https://codeigniter4.github.io/userguide/).

## Installation

1. Clone this repostiory.
2. Navigate into cloned repository folder.
3. Open terminal app and run `composer install`.

## Setup

1. Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and tailor for your app, specifically the baseURL
   and any database settings.
2. Create MySQL database match with database name specified in `.env` file.
3. Run `php spark migrate` to migrate database.
4. Run `php spark db:seed UsersSeeder` to seed the database items.
5. Run `php spark serve` to start the server. Usually [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080).
6. Sign in using username `administrator` and password `administrator`.

## Important Change with index.php

`index.php` is no longer in the root of the project! It has been moved inside the _public_ folder,
for better security and separation of components.

This means that you should configure your web server to "point" to your project's _public_ folder, and
not to the project root. A better practice would be to configure a virtual host to point there. A poor practice would be to point your web server to the project root and expect to enter _public/..._, as the rest of your logic and the
framework are exposed.

**Please** read the user guide for a better explanation of how CI4 works!

## Repository Management

We use GitHub issues, in our main repository, to track **BUGS** and to track approved **DEVELOPMENT** work packages.
We use our [forum](http://forum.codeigniter.com) to provide SUPPORT and to discuss
FEATURE REQUESTS.

This repository is a "distribution" one, built by our release preparation script.
Problems with it can be raised on our forum, or as issues in the main repository.

## Server Requirements

PHP version 7.4 or higher is required, with the following extensions installed:

- [intl](http://php.net/manual/en/intl.requirements.php)
- [mbstring](http://php.net/manual/en/mbstring.installation.php)

> **Warning**
> The end of life date for PHP 7.4 was November 28, 2022. If you are
> still using PHP 7.4, you should upgrade immediately. The end of life date
> for PHP 8.0 will be November 26, 2023.
> gi
> Additionally, make sure that the following extensions are enabled in your PHP:

- json (enabled by default - don't turn it off)
- [mysqlnd](http://php.net/manual/en/mysqlnd.install.php) if you plan to use MySQL
- [libcurl](http://php.net/manual/en/curl.requirements.php) if you plan to use the HTTP\CURLRequest library
